# microbit-docs

## Editing the docs

To edit micro:bit documentation, please edit the raw markdown files contained in the `./docs` folder. Please note that any text placed inside a block like this:

``` 
[comment]: <> ({"className":"MicroBitAccelerometer"}) 

[comment]: <> ({"end":"MicroBitAccelerometer"})
```

Will be deleted and regenerated when `python doc-gen.py` is executed.

We use mkdocs version 0.15.3 to build this site, please use this version only.

mkdocs can be obtained via the [pip](https://pip.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) command.

### Live editing

It is recommended that docs are edited locally using `mkdocs serve` before submitting a pull request with changes.

## Generating API documentation

Text placed in the following markdown comments:

``` 
[comment]: <> ({"className":"MicroBitAccelerometer"}) 

[comment]: <> ({"end":"MicroBitAccelerometer"})
```

Is automatically generated by the `doc-gen.py` script. Any changes made here will not be retained. Changes to API documentation should be made at the source: either [microbit-dal](https://github.com/lancaster-university/microbit-dal) or [microbit](https://github.com/lancaster-university/microbit).

Only maintainers of this repository are allowed to push updates to the live site.

## Building the docs

To build the docs run the python script with the paths to `microbit` and `microbit-dal` as parameters.

`python2.7 doc-gen.py -m ../lancasteruni/microbit -d ../lancasteruni/microbit-dal`

The variable `runtime` must be manually changed in `mkdocs.yml` to match the the version of the DAL that is in use.

## Archive

Old versions of the site are contained in the archive folder: 

`./docs/archive`

and can be accessed using the specific version tag:

https://lancaster-university.github.io/microbit-docs/archive/v2.0.0-rc3/

Links to the archived versions are manually added to the /help/ page.

## Uploading 

To upload the docs to github.io run the python script `python2.7 doc-gen.py -g`

This will upload to the origin's `gh-pages` branch
